Capitulo 14, segunda parte. Grammar section 61.
Ah, mini-dialogo. ¿Qué te dije? ¿Qué más te dijo el
doctor? Que lo más importante es quedarme en cama y
descansar. ¿No te dije lo mismo yo? Y sin cobrar.
Now, repeat. ¿Qué más te dijo el doctor?
Que lo más importante...
is quedarme en cama y descansar.
¿No te dije lo mismo yo?
Y sin cobrar.
B. You will hear a series of adjectives. Give the
nominalized form of each using lo. Divertido.
Lo divertido
Peor
Lo peor Interesante
Lo interesante
Curioso
Lo curioso
Necesario
Lo necesario.
Bueno.
Lo bueno. C. You will hear a series of incomplete
statements. Each will be said twice. Choose the
phrase that best completes each statement and
repeat the completed statement. Número uno. Lo
más importante del apartamento es...
Lo más importante del apartamento es el alquiler.
Número dos. Lo mejor del auto es...
Lo mejor del auto es la transmisión.
Número tres. Lo peor del curso son...
Lo peor del curso son los exámenes.
Número cuatro. Lo más interesante del texto
son...
Lo más interesante del texto son los diálogos.
Diálogo. In this dialogue, a university student
visits a doctor in her office. You will learn how to
describe flu symptoms and something about the
system Hispanics, and most Europeans, use for
measuring. En el consultorio de la médica. Ah, el
paciente habla con la enfermera. ¿Tiene usted
cita con la doctora Ruiz Sánchez? Pues siéntese,
por favor. ¿Cómo se llama? My name is Tomás
Hernández Rodríguez. What is it about? Well, the
day before yesterday I felt perfectly well. I ran
five kilometers, I played soccer, I swam, and I
went to a party. There was delicious food. I ate and
drank everything. When did you start feeling ill?
The next morning I had a fever. I coughed a lot and my
whole body hurt. Today I feel worse. And the bad
thing is that I have a literature exam. No sé nada
porque anoche no pude estudiar. ¿Tiene otros
síntomas? No, gracias a Dios. Dígame su edad, su
peso y su estatura, por favor. Tengo 21 años. Mido 1
metro 85 y peso 80 kilos. Muy bien. Ahora voy a
tomarle la temperatura. Mmm. Tiene usted fiebre.
38 grados. Put your right sleeve up. I'm going to
put pressure on it. All this for a cold? It's
routine. Now go to the doctor's office.
B, at the doctor's office, Dr. Ruiz Sanchez. Sit
down. Take out your tongue. Open your mouth and
say, ah.
The throat is a little inflamed. Now, take a deep
breath. Say, thirty-three. Thirty-three.
Good. You don't have anything serious in your
lungs. But at night I cough a lot, Doctor. I already
coughed when I got cold. It's just that you smoke
too much. Now shut up while I hide your heart. Do
you do a lot of physical exercise? I was a swimming
champion in school. I still do a lot of exercise and
practice several sports. As a consequence, you
have an athlete's heart. That is to say, you have it
stronger than normal. In general, you are in very
good physical condition. You will
hear a series of statements about the preceding
dialogue. Each will be said twice. Circle C if the
statement is true or F if it is false. Número uno. El
médico en este diálogo es un hombre. El médico en
este diálogo es un hombre.
Número dos. Tomás se sentía perfectamente bien
anteayer. Tomás se sentía perfectamente bien
anteayer.
Número tres. Tomás está preparado para su examen
de literatura. Tomás está preparado para su
examen de literatura.
Número cuatro. El resfriado de Tomás es serio. El
resfriado de Tomás es serio.
Número cinco. La doctora le recomienda a Tomás que
no deje sus exámenes para el último momento. La
doctora le recomienda a Tomás que no deje sus
exámenes para el último momento.
You should have circled the letters F, C, F, F, and
C.
Un poco de todo. A. You will hear a series of short
dialogues followed by a series of statements
about the dialogues. Circle C if the statements
are true or F if they are false. One. Here's the
first dialogue. De niños. Hablan Ricardo y
Angelita. Here are
the
true-false statements. Ah. Ricardo and Angelita
are siblings.
B. Angelita always wanted to sit on the balcony.
C. Once Angelita couldn't go to the movies because
she was sick.
You should have circled the letters C, F, and C.
Two. Here is the second dialogue. In Dr. Jiménez's
office, Dr. Jiménez and Mr. Crespo speak. Good
morning, Mr. Crespo. Do you still have that cough?
Yes, Dr. Jiménez. I felt good this morning, but
now... Tengo una tos terrible y no puedo respirar
bien. Pero, señor Crespo, es que usted fuma
demasiado y nunca hace ejercicios. Tampoco
duerme lo suficiente. Le aconsejo a usted que no
fume, o que por lo menos no fume tanto. También
quiero que empiece a hacer ejercicios cada día.
Here are the true-false statements. A. El Sr.
Crespo se sentía muy bien esta mañana.
B. El Dr. Jimenez piensa que su paciente fuma
demasiado.
You
should have circled the letters C, C, and F.
B, listening passage. You will hear a brief
passage about Alfonso X, the wise, who was king of
Spain in the 13th century. It will be read twice.
Then you will hear a series of incomplete
statements about the passage. Complete each
statement based on the passage. This is a
listening comprehension exercise. Answers are
given at the end of this tape. Here is the passage.
Alfonso X was king of Spain from 1252 to 1284.
gave him the name Sábio for his great interest in
all aspects of culture. Alfonso started a special
school to translate Arabic, Hebrew and Latin
books into Spanish. At this time, three different
cultures coexisted in Spain. Arabic, Hebrew and
Christian. Thanks to Alfonso X, many Arabic and
Hebrew medical texts could be read in Spanish, and
Spanish doctors learned many new techniques.
There were also texts on astronomy, mathematics,
chemistry, and physics. The Spanish they spoke at
that time was different from the Spanish we speak
today. La diferencia es más o menos como la
diferencia entre el inglés de Shakespeare y el
inglés moderno. Now the entire passage will be
repeated. Alfonso X fue rey de España desde 1252
hasta 1284. Le dieron
el nombre de sabio por su gran interés en todos los
aspectos de la cultura. Alfonso started a special
school to translate Arabic, Hebrew and Latin
books into Spanish. At this time, three different
cultures coexisted in Spain. Arabic, Hebrew and
Christian culture. Thanks to Alfonso X, many
Arabic and Hebrew medical texts could be read in
Spanish. and the Spanish doctors learned many new
techniques. There were also texts on astronomy,
mathematics, chemistry and physics.
The Spanish they spoke at that time was different
from the Spanish we speak today. The difference is
more or less like the difference between
Shakespeare's English and modern English.
Here are the incomplete statements. Each will be
said twice. Number one. Alfonso was given the name
Sábio. Alfonso was given the name Sábio.
A, for his great interest in all aspects of
culture. B, because he only cared about politics.
Number 2. The cultures that coexisted in Spain at
that time were...
The cultures that coexisted in Spain at that time
were...
A. The Arab, the Hebrew and the Christian. B. The
Christian and the Hebrew.
Number three. The Arabs and the Jews wrote. The
Arabs and the Jews wrote.
A. Only the medicine books. B. Medicine books,
astronomy, physics, mathematics and chemistry.
Number four. El español antiguo es... El español
antiguo es... A, idéntico al español moderno. B,
diferente al español moderno.
C, y para terminar, una canción. Triste estaba el
rey David is a 15th century Spanish song written by
Alonso de Mudarra.
Triste estaba el rey David
Triste y con gran pasión
Cuando
le vinieron nuevas De
la muerte de Absalón
De Absalom, de Absalom, de Absalom.
Cuando le vinieron
nuevas De la muerte de Absalom
Palabras tristes
decía Salidas
del corazón
Nel corazon Nel corazon Nel
corazon
Here are the answers to the listening
comprehension exercise. 1, A. 2, A. 3, B. 1, 2, 3, 4.
1, 2, 3, 4.